Paul Karhnak (zxz2hm)
zxz2hm@virginia.edu OR paulk@virginia.edu

I have academic experience with embedded systems and computer architecture,
plus both academic and professional experience with low-level
programming/systems programming in C. In Spring 2023, I took ECE 3430:
Introduction to Embedded Computer Systems, where we implemented drivers for
peripherals like SPI, pushbuttons, and an ADC for a TI MSP432 board. In Spring
2023 and Fall 2023, I took CS 3130: Computer Systems and Organization 2, where
I wrote low-level C code to implement operating system features. CS 3130 also
dealt with computer architecture essentials like pipelined and out-of-order
execution. In Spring 2024, I took ECE 4501: Advanced Embedded Computing
Systems, where I co-developed a real-time operating system (RTOS) kernel for a
TI Tiva TM4C123GH6PM board, culminating in a final project where my team and I
developed a small video game similar to DOOM. 

In Summer 2024, I developed the MUSTANG file traversal utility for Los Alamos
National Laboratory's High Performance Computing Infrastructure (HPC-INF)
group. MUSTANG makes extensive use of Linux system calls (particularly
filesystem function calls) and multithreading through the pthreads API. The
code I wrote may be viewed at:
https://github.com/pdkarhnak/marfs-mustang-devel/tree/master/src/mustang.

In Fall 2024, I took ECE 4440: Embedded System Design, where my team and I
ported FreeRTOS to a TI MSPM0G3507 microcontroller, then developed firmware to
interface with a wide range of board features (ADC and GPIO reading, SPI, and
UART, the last of which was my specialty). Also in Fall 2024, I administered a
Raspberry Pi board (first a 5, then a 4B) to do relatively "higher-level" Linux
systems programming in support of our project. My work in ECE 4440 supported an
electronic chessboard (formally, the C.H.E.S.S.B.O.A.R.D., or the "Chess
Helper, Evaluator, and Study Supporter to Boost Observation, Acumen, Reasoning,
and Deduction" in full), which was my team and I's capstone design project. The
project containing the firmware and other software for the board may be viewed
at: https://github.com/peek-dev/capstone

I was an undergraduate teaching assistant for CS 2130: Computer Systems and
Organization 1 (a computer architecture class also covering x86 assembly and C)
in Spring 2023 and an undergraduate teaching assistant for CS 3130 in Spring
2024 and Fall 2024. Currently (in Spring 2025), I am a teaching assistant for
ECE 4501: Advanced Embedded Computing Systems. I'm super eager to do yet
**more** teaching related to operating systems and low-level C. What I hope to
get out of the semester is the knowledge that you all had an enjoyable
experience implementing a real-time operating system and practicing operating
system constructs in low-level C and assembly. Don't hesitate to reach out and
ask for help---I really do get a kick out of doing this job :)

Lastly, I have a variety of interests in computer science and engineering.
Computer architecture, embedded systems and operating systems programming, and
cybersecurity (including application security, digital forensics, threat
intelligence, and embedded security) are only a few. The shorter answer is
anything involving C.
